

 

This Software License is made by (AV COMPANY NAME), (address of AV
COMPANY NAME), to the Customer as an essential element of the services to be
rendered by (AV COMPANY NAME) as defined in the system specification and any
associated documents and agreement. System
shall mean the deliverable product as defined in these documents.

 

Customer and (AV COMPANY NAME) agree that this Software License is
deemed to be part of, and subject to, the terms of the Agreement applicable to
both parties.

 

SECTION 1            LICENSE GRANT AND OWNERSHIP

 

1.1        (AV
COMPANY NAME) hereby grants to Customer a worldwide, perpetual, non-exclusive,
non-transferable license to all software for Customer’s use in connection with
the establishment, use, maintenance and modification of the system implemented
by (AV COMPANY NAME). Software shall
mean executable object code of software programs and the patches, scripts,
modifications, enhancements, designs, concepts or other materials that
constitute the software programs necessary for the proper function and
operation of the system as delivered by the (AV COMPANY NAME) and accepted by
the Customer.

1.2        Except
as expressly set forth in this paragraph, (AV COMPANY NAME) shall at all times
own all intellectual property rights in the software. Any and all licenses,
product warranties or service contracts provided by third parties in connection
with any software, hardware or other software or services provided in the
system shall be delivered to Customer for the sole benefit of Customer.

1.3        Customer
may supply to (AV COMPANY NAME) or allow the (AV COMPANY NAME) to use certain
proprietary information, including service marks, logos, graphics, software,
documents and business information and plans that have been authored or pre-owned
by Customer. All such intellectual property shall remain the exclusive property
of Customer and shall not be used by (AV COMPANY NAME) for any purposes other
than those associated with delivery of the system.

 

SECTION 2            COPIES, MODIFICATION, AND USE

 

2.1        Customer
may make copies of the software for archival purposes and as required for
modifications to the system. All copies and distribution of the software shall
remain within the direct control of Customer and its representatives.

2.2        Customer
may make modifications to the source code version of the software, if and only
if the results of all such modifications are applied solely to the system. In
no way does this Software License confer any right in Customer to license,
sublicense, sell, or otherwise authorize the use of the software, whether in
executable form, source code or otherwise, by any third parties, except in
connection with the use of the system as part of Customer’s business.

2.3        All
express or implied warranties relating to the software shall be deemed null and
void in case of any modification to the software made by any party other than (AV
COMPANY NAME).

 

SECTION 3       WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS

 

(AV COMPANY NAME) represents and warrants to Customer that:

 

it has
all necessary rights and authority to execute and deliver this Software License
and perform its obligations hereunder and to grant the rights granted under
this Software License to Customer; the
goods and services provided by contractor under this Software License,
including the software and all intellectual property provided hereunder, are
original to (AV COMPANY NAME) or its subcontractors or partners; andthe
software, as delivered as part of the system, will not infringe or otherwise
violate the rights of any third party, or violate any applicable law, rule or
regulation.3.4        (AV
COMPANY NAME) further represents and warrants that, throughout the System
Warranty Period, the executable object code of software and the system will
perform substantially in accordance with the System Specifications and
Agreement. If the software fails to perform as specified and accepted all
remedies are pursuant to the policies set forth in the Specification and in the
Agreement. No warranty of any type or nature is provided for the source code version
of the software which is delivered as is.3.5        Except as expressly stated in this
Agreement, there are no warranties, express or implied, including, but not
limited to, the implied warranties of fitness for a particular purpose, of
merchantability, or warranty of no infringement of third party intellectual
property rights. 











SECTION 4            INDEMNIFICATION

 

4.1        (AV
COMPANY NAME) hereby indemnifies and shall defend and hold harmless Customer,
its parent companies and its and their subsidiaries, affiliates, officers,
directors, employees, agents and subcontractors from and against all liability,
damages, loss, cost or expense, including but not limited to reasonable
attorneys’ fees and expenses, arising out of or in connection with any breach
or alleged breach of the Agreement or any third party claims that the software
or system here provided by (AV COMPANY NAME) infringes or otherwise violates
any rights of any such third party.

4.2        Customer
hereby indemnifies and shall defend and hold harmless (AV COMPANY NAME), its
and their subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents and
subcontractors from and against all liability, damages, loss, cost or expense,
including but not limited to reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses, arising
out of or in connection with any third party claims that Customer’s use of the
software in contravention of the grant of rights infringes or otherwise
violates any rights of any such third party.

4.3        Upon
the assertion of any claim or the commencement of any suit or proceeding
against an indemnitee by any third party that may give rise to liability of an
indemnitor hereunder, the indemnitee shall promptly notify the indemnitor of
the existence of such a claim and shall give the indemnitor reasonable
opportunity to defend and to settle the claim at its own expense and with
counsel of its own selection. The indemnitee shall cooperate with the
indemnitor, shall at all times have the right full to participate in such a
defense at its own expense and shall not be obligated, against its consent, to
participate in any settlement which it reasonably believes would have an
adverse effect on its business.

 

SECTION 5            TRANSFER AND TERMINATION

 

This license will automatically terminate upon the disassembly of the
system cited above, unless the system is reassembled in its original
configuration in another location.

 

(AV COMPANY NAME) may terminate this license upon notice for failure to
comply with any of terms set forth in this Software License. Upon termination,
Customer is obligated to immediately destroy the software, including all copies
and modifications.

 

